Every bread tuber and left youtuber makes a pipeline video. You know what I'm talking about right? Where they put out some video about how in 2014 they were part of gamergate, in 2016 they watched Sargon, and they were becoming a member of the alt-right. But somehow they were pulled out of the pipeline, they were saved.
They often begin such a video by decrying the competitive nature of video games, or the love of edgy humor within gaming culture, because competition is anti-equality and edgy humor is anti-safe space, making gaming on some level fundamentally anti-leftist. This is something I touched on in the last video.
And they haven't stopped making these videos, it seems like every week there is a new crumbtuber out there who's posting on twitter how they're making an alt-right pipeline radicalization video, and how much it would help him if people posted their own pipeline stories and spread it around.
The stories themselves are almost always the same kind of thing. These people grew up as a normie, believing in the normie liberal ideal as much as your average unengaged politically unaligned person did 10 or 20 years ago.
They viewed the broader left as liberation central, while it was right wing religious types who wanted to restrict freedom of speech.
So when the fringes of the left began to radicalize, and subsequently were featured on screaming feminist SJW owned compilations on youtube, which was quite an edgy platform back in the day, the normies watched those videos and laughed.
They were still committed to those values of free speech and openness, and it was novel to them that leftoids rather than rightoids for once were opposing those values.
After that though came the classical liberals who were dissecting why the champions of free speech and openness were suddenly betraying those values.
These were the Sargons and the Paul Joseph Watsons. Beyond them there were the conservatives, who were more than willing to take this new political shift and provide answers through their own lens.
The Milo Yiannopoulos's and Ben Shapiro's. You should notice that I am literally describing the leftist conception of the alt-right pipeline, and that's because on some level, yeah it's true. However the left gets a lot wrong about it.
Firstly, if the end of the pipeline is the alt-right, then it obviously doesn't end at Milo and Ben Shapiro. A white nationalist quasi-neo-fascist movement has no interest in gay or Jewish men. I can't believe that needs to be said, but here we are.
The pipeline to the extreme end of the right continues far beyond these two, but leftoids like to pretend that they're the end of the pipeline, as a way to crush the center, center right, mainstream right, and far right all into the same group.
Ignore all of their differences and act like your average person is just as bad as the most radicalized rightoid. Even though, of course, these same people will go to painstaking lengths to define minute differences between different flavors of leftist, and say that the center left sockdems are fundamentally different from the far left socialists.
Secondly, their pipeline theory extends far beyond gamergate to fascist, or 4chan to neo-nazi pipelines, and those ones are already ridiculously stupid.
If you think that nazis like edgy, irreverent jokes, tell a deformed dick, one-ball hitler joke in front of them and see how much they laugh.
But it's not just that. Have you ever heard of the country singer to alt-right pipeline? I know I haven't.
How about the divorced dad to alt-right pipeline? Joe Rogan to alt-right pipeline? Russell Brand to alt-right pipeline? Pewdiepie to alt-right pipeline? Is this just smaller pipelines branching off of the greater people who disagree with me to alt-right pipeline?
Hey, how about the private school to alt-right pipeline, guys? If you're not being told directly by the government what to do, you're apparently a nazi, which is the complete opposite in reality.
After Trump's victory in 2016, the media, in a desperate attempt to figure out what went wrong, latched onto the alt-right pipeline narrative too.
And even though Biden took the White House, and Trumpism was dealt a public, embarrassing blow during the January 6th Capitol riot, the media continues to lean on the pipeline thing.
Studies were commissioned on the nature of the pipeline, like the embarrassingly inaccurate evaluating the scale, growth, and origins of right-wing echo chambers on YouTube, which labeled shoe-on-head as right-wing.
But this is full of goodies. There's apparently a guy under far-left called cuck philosophy. Oh, Hugo and Jake is in here too, you're misgendering now, dude.
Maddox and Bunty King are put under centrist, even though those guys have swung quite far-left in recent years.
The far-right category, along with shoe, also contains It's a Gundam, Sargon, Academic Agent, Armored Skeptic, Repzion, Matt, Jarbo, Garopy, Joe Rogan, Dankula, the list goes on.
What they call far-right contains a wide variety of different people who are not at all politically aligned.
It's more like when they say left, they mean establishment, and when they say right, they mean outsider.
And yes, I'm in there too. I'm sure Academic Agent and I see eye-to-eye on tomboy abs.
There is also the infamous alternative influence, broadcasting the reactionary right on YouTube, detailing how political YouTubers adopt the platform, look, and tactics of non-political YouTubers, in an effort to radicalize people rightward.
In their view, anyway.
The report decries a segment of YouTube that has wildly different political beliefs, only similar to each other in that they are anti-leftist, ranging from conservatives, to libertarians, to monarchists, to white nationalists, and that these creators form a broader community created by an interconnected web of appearances on each other's channels, sometimes as guests, but other times as debate opponents.
The implication being that this web of connections creates a pipeline for viewers to be pushed down, even though in actuality, the people in this COMMUNITY disagree with each other regularly, they're just not explicitly leftist.
And the people who wrote this report view politics as being made up of my specific brand of leftism versus everybody else.
Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the implication surrounding the alt-right pipeline discourse is that radicalization is bad. Fair enough.
But there's obviously other pipelines that radicalize people leftward.
In fact, in people's I was saved from the alt-right pipeline stories, they almost always describe the exact same alt-left pipeline.
People start off watching iDubbbz or ChrisRayGun, they end up watching ShoeOnHead or ContraPoints, and then eventually they get to Vosh or the Serfs.
There absolutely is a pipeline leading from milk-toast progressive to tanky in denial.
Yes, I know Vosh calls himself a lib-sock and places himself in opposition to overt tankies, but as we've gone over in previous videos, that's a smokescreen and everybody knows it.
Now, if you were to approach leftists with this obvious double standard, you'd get one of two replies.
The first is just blanket denial.
The second is far more interesting, that radicalization leftward is good and radicalization rightward is bad.
Again, if you look at any lefty twitter spaces, you'll see people talking casually about how pulling others leftward is a victory.
They aren't interested in you as individuals, but only as fertile ground to colonize for their ideology.
They say nothing about changing people's habits or their inclinations towards harassment or violence, only that they're now playing for the correct political team.
This attitude, in fact, makes them more likely to be harassing or violent, because now they have moral righteousness on their side.
I used to be part of the bad team, but now I'm part of the good team, so if I do all that bad shit I used to do, but while waving the good flag and towards people waving the bad flag, then it's good.
How very Marcusean of you.
This is why a common leftist mantra is, let this radicalize you rather than leading you to despair, and why a common conversation is discussing what radicalized you or what caused you to wake up.
Again, using that quasi-religious awakening language you've talked about before.
These radicalized people use all of the tools of previous repressive regimes.
The big lie is now my truth.
Anecdotes are now lived experience.
Rejecting political neutrality in the marketplace of ideas has become cancel culture, which they then further cloak by calling it accountability because they've lost the optics war on canceling.
Bootlicking pride in the ideology is now called virtue signaling.
It's the same mechanisms retooled for the modern age.
As it turns out, the concept of a pipeline funneling people away from the left is also something that has been rebranded and retooled for leftist purposes.
It was once called the walk away movement, otherwise known as how I left the left.
In 2018, Brandon Straka, a gay Democrat, started the movement and tried to encourage disaffected liberals to leave the Democratic party and vote for Trump-leaning Republicans.
And, to the credit of people who actually view this as a radicalization effort, Straka was later arrested and convicted for his part in the January 6th Capitol riots.
The walk away movement did certainly appeal to people on the center left who found themselves slowly migrating rightward, as they felt that the left had abandoned them and their interests.
For example, Ariel Scarkella, a prominent lesbian activist, has recently swung rightward as the left has largely abandoned lesbian activism in favor of trans activism in the past decade.
In other people, for example, like Judith Rose, did legitimately fall down a QAnon rabbit hole after leaving the left.
But despite all of this, the walk away movement did actually speak to another segment of the population.
People who were legitimately still aligned with leftist social issues, but felt that, on other topics, the left was absolutely going too far,
whether that be economically in their swing towards overt socialism, or culturally, in their attempts to demonize and censor everybody who refused to march in lockstep with them.
It wasn't just all hidden rightoids, it absolutely was abandoned leftoids too.
And then you begin to notice some other subtle things.
It's not just that some people go PewDiePie to Ben Shapiro to Richard Spencer, it's that some people go CRG to shoot Vosch.
Where leftoids might ask what radicalized you, rightoids might ask what was your woke breaking point.
Another of those academic papers on the outright pipeline, this one called Alt-Right Pipeline, Individual Journeys to Extremism Online, identifies and describes three steps of right wing online extremism.
The first step is called normalization, where people become normalized to edgy humor and jokes about a group that the extremists want to see other dehumanized down the line.
Memes and jokes, therefore, are a key medium of radicalization and cannot be trusted.
The second step is acclamation. As the jokes become normalized, it establishes a new cognitive baseline for what is acceptable.
Suddenly there's a new edge to ride, and the former introductionary YouTubers like Steven Crowder or Paul Joseph Watson, who are merely conservatives, appear to be too centrist for their taste.
Their appetite for edgier content pushes them rightward.
The final step is dehumanization, where finally, the victim of the pipeline is able to commit violence against the targets of their ire, which began as simply edgy jokes.
The paper uses the example of the Christchurch shooter saying sub to PewDiePie during the live stream of his attack.
As evidence of this effect coming full circle. The paper describes this process as the collapse of the boundary between troll and extremist.
Now this happens sometimes, but not all the time.
There are absolutely people who say edgy jokes and don't mean them, and they don't radicalize, and that's that.
But more importantly, this is not unique to right wing radicalization. This is how all radicalization works.
Like Antifa or BLM attacking people and burning businesses, and yes, even killing people.
The same three steps are present.
Normalization.
Eat the rich. By the way, we're just joking.
Hashtag yes all men.
Cis white boys are the problem.
Acclamation.
Shoe on head is a reactionary libcuck.
Vosh is rad.
Oh, hold on. Vosh hides his power level too much.
Maybe it's time to start watching some overtly tanky channels.
Dehumanization.
Let's actually start killing or attacking our political opponents in the streets.
Because we've been told by our favorite YouTubers that only power matters, and winning is better than principles.
You call it selling out your principles? I call it fucking winning.
And that's my principle. To win as a socialist, not to lose as a socialist.
That's not my principle. I don't give a fuck about principled failure.
Principled failure is worth dogshit.
This mechanism that we're discussing, whatever it is, it's functioning on both sides of the aisle.
But the left only complains about it when it happens in favor of the right.
And I'm sure if the right held all the institutional power right now, they would only complain about it if it favored the left as well.
So, maybe we need to home in on something a bit more concrete.
Each side is convinced that it has the truth and the other is tainted by propaganda.
Which one of these views, if any, is actually mapping onto objective reality?
There's another study called Algorithmic Extremism examining YouTube's rabbit hole of radicalization.
And it can probably help us cut through some of the bullshit.
After categorizing nearly 800 political channels, we were able to differentiate between political schemas in order to analyze the algorithm traffic flows out and between each group.
After conducting a detailed analysis of the recommendations received by each channel type, we can refute the popular radicalization claims.
To the contrary, the data suggests that YouTube's recommendation algorithm actively discourages viewers from visiting radicalizing or extremist content.
Instead, the algorithm is shown to favor mainstream media and cable news content over independent YouTube channels with slants towards left-leaning or politically neutral channels.
Our study thus suggests that YouTube's recommendation algorithm fails to promote inflammatory or radicalized content, as previously claimed by several outlets.
So, if there is a pipeline effect moving people towards the right, it's not being caused by YouTube itself.
There have been other studies that have come out over the years showing that the left has independently radicalized over time since before even Trump came along.
Each of these show similar results.
The right has shifted a little bit rightward, but the left has absolutely spun itself off into crazy town.
And again, if you were to confront a leftist with this data, they would say, of course, leftist radicalization is good.
But that is not a good enough answer for me.
And I have no answer.
I have a hypothesis.
I'm not entirely sure if it's true, but maybe.
I've noticed that the broader left fervently believes in a unidirectional view of progress.
That history is meant to move along the long straight arrow of progress over time.
And that arrow, of course, points to the left.
They hold this belief because they view morality as if it were a science to be developed.
The same as alchemy eventually became chemistry, Newtonian physics was replaced with general relativity, and so on.
They see a steady march of history where kingdoms were replaced by republics and republics were replaced by socialist states.
And eventually, by a stateless, classless, moneyless, post-scarcity society.
They see the gradual expansion of civil liberties where slavery was made illegal, then served and abolished, then civil rights.
And they envision a future of totalizing equality.
Your average leftist will say something like, the left-right scale is a good evil scale.
And history in progress is meant to move leftward eternally over time with a straight face.
To contrast, the right wing believes in a cyclical view of progress.
That history moves in waves, empires ebb and flow.
And that this is a natural occurrence that can't be escaped.
They point to economics, where when people engage in a free market there is natural inequality.
And market forces will tend to see industries collapsing.
And market forces will tend to see industries collapsing and new enterprises appearing across large enough timeframes.
They correctly point out that the West's great material wealth hasn't led to the widespread happiness that was assumed.
And that more complicated lives may not necessarily be better for the common person.
They don't consider a utopia on earth to be possible the way the left does.
And they consider the world to be in a fallen state, whether that be for a religious reason.
Or due to the gradual loss of traditional culture to the passage of time.
Your average rightist will say something like, hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, and weak men create hard times with a straight face.
In reality, politics seems to operate like a swinging pendulum.
One side pulls things two out of whack, the electorate ensures it swings back the other way in equal measure.
This is more of a cyclical system than a unidirectional one.
And the rightist view of the world seems to map more accurately onto the political sphere than the leftist one.
For decades, the left has been march of progressing its way ever leftward.
Moderates were left behind and labeled as reactionaries and fascists.
And Trump was the snapback.
There will likely be further snapbacks, like how we've seen republican governors in the states become more brazen in their rightism recently.
That doesn't mean that the leftist view of progress is completely wrong though.
Certainly with stuff like hard science, acquisition of knowledge, technology or engineering, there is a more linear model of progress happening in those fields.
But politics is a fundamentally different type of field.
I think what we're seeing is certainly partially a radicalization rightward.
People who are disillusioned by the left are absolutely prime targets to be scooped up and radicalized by rightist actors.
But I don't think that's the main cause of what we're seeing.
I think the big picture leftist view of progress and history does not map well onto politics.
Scientific progress may be unidirectional, but politics isn't a science.
Moving leftward eternally over time does not constitute true progress.
Especially when the left wants to regress into older failed ideas, like the economics of socialism or the tribalism of race and gender politics.
So what's actually happening here, at least in my opinion, is that leftists are seeing regular people, even their own allies sometimes, rebuke their more radical elements.
And in response they're thinking, everyone's a Nazi!
But what's actually happening is they're simply going too far.
I think we all know this intuitively.
50 years ago if you questioned authority, distrusted large corporations and governments, hated censorship, liked crass humor, thought schools brainwashed kids, and wanted to focus on domestic issues, you were absolutely a hippie leftist.
20 years ago you were a normal liberal.
But today, holding those opinions, we'll see leftists label you as a fascist.
The alt-right pipeline exists, sure, in some minimal capacity.
But the why I left the left, or the left left me behind narrative, explains what's actually going on here with far greater accuracy than the alt-right pipeline narrative.
Leftoids don't want to admit it because they don't want to look in the mirror and understand that they're the cause of a lot of the problems that they're currently facing.